---
layout: page
permalink: /publications/
title: publications
description: # false publications by categories in reversed chronological order. generated by jekyll-scholar.
---


<strong> List of selected research papers (<a href="https://sci-hub">Learn more</a>): </strong>

<ol>
<li>
Maia, F.C.O., Bufon, V.B., Leao, T.P. 2022. Vegetation indices as a tool for mapping sugarcane management zones. Precision Agriculture. </li> 

<li>
Leao, T.P., Wendt, T.G., Campos, G.A.S., de Figueiredo, C.C. 2022. Organic Matter, Agricultural Use, and Dispersion of Ferralsols for Grain Size Analysis. <em>  Communications in Soil Science and Plant Analysis</em> 1--15 </li>

<li>
Leao, T.P., da Costa, B.F.D., Bufon, V.B., Aragón, F.F.H. 2020. Using time domain reflectometry to estimate water content of three soil orders under savanna in Brazil. <em>  Geoderma Regional </em> 21: e00280 </li>

<li>
Leao, T.P., Neves, H.V., Campos, A.F.C., Pinheiro, T.D., de Figueiredo, C.C. 2020. A conceptual model for stability and surface chemistry of oxidic soil dispersions. <em>  Colloids And Surfaces A-Physicochemical And Engineering Aspects</em> 603:125--214. </li>


<li>
Leao, T.P. 2020. Modeling Magnetic Minerals Effect On Water Content Estimation In Porous Media. <em>  Progress in Electromagnetics Research C</em> 106:215-228 </li>


<li>
Leao, T.P. 2019. Water retention and penetration resistance equations for the least limiting water range. <em>  Scientia Agricola </em> 76:172--178 </li>

<li>
Pereira, R.M., Leao, T.P., Sandri, D., Baptista, G.M.M., da Cunha, L.S. 2019. Air temperature modelling in Distrito Federal - Brazil region with atmospheric airs sensor data. [Modelagem da Temperatura do Ar na Regiao do Distrito Federal - Brasil, por meio de dados atmosfericos do Sensor AIRS]. <em>  Revista Brasileira de Meteorologia </em> 34:275--282 </li>


<li>
de Lima, R.P., da Silva, A.R., da Silva, A.P., Leao, T.P., Mosaddeghi, M.R. 2016. soilphysics: An R package for calculating soil water availability to plants by different soil physical indices. <em>  Computers and Electronics in Agriculture </em> 120:63--71 </li>


<li>
Leao, T.P. 2016. Particle size distribution of Oxisols in Brazil. <em>  Geoderma Regional </em> 7:216--222 </li>

<li>
Leao, T.P., Perfect, E. , Tyner, J.S. 2015. Evaluation of Lichtenecker's Mixing Model for Predicting Effective Permittivitty of Soils at 50 MHz. <em>  American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers. Transactions </em> 58:83--91 </li>


<li>
Leao, T.P., Silva, A.P., Tormena, C.A., Giarola, N.F., de Figueiredo, G.C. 2014. Assessing the immediate and residual effects of chiseling for ameliorating soil compaction under long-term no-tillage. <em>  Journal of Soil and Water Conservation </em> 69:431--438 </li>


<li>
Leao, T.P., Tuller, M. 2014. Relating soil specific surface area, water film thickness, and water vapor adsorption. <em>  Water Resources Research </em> 50 </li>


<li>
Leao, T.P., Guimaraes, T.L.B., de Figueiredo, C.C., Busato, J.G., Breyer, H.S. 2013. On Critical Coagulation Concentration Theory and Grain Size Analysis of Oxisols. <em>  Soil Science Society of America Journal </em> 77:1955 </li>



<li>
Leao, T.P., Gentry, R. 2011. Numerical modeling of the effect of variation of boundary conditions on vadose zone hydraulic properties. <em>  Revista Brasileira de Ciencia do Solo (Impresso) </em> 35:263--272 </li>


<li>
Leao, T.P., Perfect, E., Tyner, J.S. 2010. Estimation of Soil Water Content Using a 50 MHz Impedance Sensor: Soil Texture, Structure, and Salinity Interactions. <em>  Transactions of the ASABE </em> 53:163--170 </li>


<li>
Leao, T.P., Perfect, E. 2010. Modeling water movement in horizontal columns using fractal theory. <em>  Revista Brasileira de Ciencia do Solo (Impresso) </em> 34:1463 </li>

<li>
Leao, T.P., Perfect, E., Tyner, J.S. New semi-empirical formulae for predicting soil solution conductivity from dielectric properties at 50MHz. <em>  Journal of Hydrology (Amsterdam) </em> 393:321--330 </li>


<li>
van den Berg, E.H., Perfect, E., Tu, C., Knappett, P.S.K., Leao, T.P., Donat, R.W. 2009. Unsaturated hydraulic conductivity measurements with centrifuges: a review <em> Vadose Zone Journal</em> 8: 531--547 </li>

<li>
Kavalieri, K.M.V., Silva, A.P., Tormena, C.A., Leao, T.P., Dexter, A.R. 2009. Long term effects of no-tillage on dynamic soil physical properties in a Rhodic Ferrasol in Parana, Brazil <em> Soil and Tillage Research</em> 130: 158--164 </li>

<li>
Leao, T.P., Silva, A.P. 2006. A statistical basis for selecting parameters for the evaluation of soil penetration resistance  <em> Scientia Agricola</em> 63(6): 552--557 </li>

<li>
Leao, T.P., Silva, A.P., Macedo, M.C.M., Imhoff, S., Euclides, V.P.B. 2006. Least limiting water range: an indicator of soil degradation after conversion of Brazilian savanna into pasture  <em> Soil and Tillage Research</em> 88: 279--285 </li>

<li>
Leao, T.P., Silva, A.P., Perfect, E., Tormena, C.A.. 2005. An algorithm for calculating the least limiting water range of soils  <em> Agronomy Journal</em> 97: 1210--1215 </li>

<li>
Leao, T.P., Silva, A.P. 2004. A simplified Excel algorithm for estimating the least limiting water range of soils  <em> Scientia Agricola</em> 61: 649--654 </li>
</ol>


<strong> Theses and dissertations: </strong>

Ph.D. Dissertation at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville (2009) <a href="https://trace.tennessee.edu/utk_graddiss/5474/"> here </a> 


 D.Sc. Thesis at the Universisty of Sao Paulo. (Here "thesis" has the same connotation as dissertation) (2005) <a href="https://teses.usp.br/teses/disponiveis/11/11140/tde-20200111-155114/en.php"> here </a> 


 M.Sc. Dissertation at the University of Sao Paulo (2003) <a href="https://www.teses.usp.br/teses/disponiveis/11/11140/tde-25022003-135617/en.php"> here </a>






