---
layout: page
permalink: /publications/
title: publications
description: # false publications by categories in reversed chronological order. generated by jekyll-scholar.
---


<strong> List of selected research papers (<a href="https://sci-hub">Learn more</a>): </strong>

1.
Maia, F.C.O., Bufon, V.B., Leao, T.P. 2022. Vegetation indices as a tool for mapping sugarcane management zones. Precision Agriculture.  


2.
Leao, T.P., Wendt, T.G., Campos, G.A.S., de Figueiredo, C.C. 2022. Organic Matter, Agricultural Use, and Dispersion of Ferralsols for Grain Size Analysis. <em>  Communications in Soil Science and Plant Analysis</em> 1--15

3.
Leao, T.P., da Costa, B.F.D., Bufon, V.B., Aragón, F.F.H. 2020. Using time domain reflectometry to estimate water content of three soil orders under savanna in Brazil. <em>  Geoderma Regional </em> 21: e00280

4.
Leao, T.P., Neves, H.V., Campos, A.F.C., Pinheiro, T.D., de Figueiredo, C.C. 2020. A conceptual model for stability and surface chemistry of oxidic soil dispersions. <em>  Colloids And Surfaces A-Physicochemical And Engineering Aspects</em> 603:125--214.


5.
Leao, T.P. 2020. Modeling Magnetic Minerals Effect On Water Content Estimation In Porous Media. <em>  Progress in Electromagnetics Research C</em> 106:215-228


6.
Leao, T.P. 2019. Water retention and penetration resistance equations for the least limiting water range. <em>  Scientia Agricola </em> 76:172--178

7.
Pereira, R.M., Leao, T.P., Sandri, D., Baptista, G.M.M., da Cunha, L.S. 2019. Air temperature modelling in Distrito Federal - Brazil region with atmospheric airs sensor data. [Modelagem da Temperatura do Ar na Regiao do Distrito Federal - Brasil, por meio de dados atmosfericos do Sensor AIRS]. <em>  Revista Brasileira de Meteorologia </em> 34:275--282


9.
de Lima, R.P., da Silva, A.R., da Silva, A.P., Leao, T.P., Mosaddeghi, M.R. 2016. soilphysics: An R package for calculating soil water availability to plants by different soil physical indices. <em>  Computers and Electronics in Agriculture </em> 120:63--71


10.
Leao, T.P. 2016. Particle size distribution of Oxisols in Brazil. <em>  Geoderma Regional </em> 7:216--222

11.
Leao, T.P., Perfect, E. , Tyner, J.S. 2015. Evaluation of Lichtenecker's Mixing Model for Predicting Effective Permittivitty of Soils at 50 MHz. <em>  American Society of Agricultural and Biological Engineers. Transactions </em> 58:83--91


12.
Leao, T.P., Silva, A.P., Tormena, C.A., Giarola, N.F., de Figueiredo, G.C. 2014. Assessing the immediate and residual effects of chiseling for ameliorating soil compaction under long-term no-tillage. <em>  Journal of Soil and Water Conservation </em> 69:431--438


13.
Leao, T.P., Tuller, M. 2014. Relating soil specific surface area, water film thickness, and water vapor adsorption. <em>  Water Resources Research </em> 50


14.
Leao, T.P., Guimaraes, T.L.B., de Figueiredo, C.C., Busato, J.G., Breyer, H.S. 2013. On Critical Coagulation Concentration Theory and Grain Size Analysis of Oxisols. <em>  Soil Science Society of America Journal </em> 77:1955



15.
Leao, T.P., Gentry, R. 2011. Numerical modeling of the effect of variation of boundary conditions on vadose zone hydraulic properties. <em>  Revista Brasileira de Ciencia do Solo (Impresso) </em> 35:263--272


16.
Leao, T.P., Perfect, E., Tyner, J.S. 2010. Estimation of Soil Water Content Using a 50 MHz Impedance Sensor: Soil Texture, Structure, and Salinity Interactions. <em>  Transactions of the ASABE </em> 53:163--170


17.
Leao, T.P., Perfect, E. 2010. Modeling water movement in horizontal columns using fractal theory. <em>  Revista Brasileira de Ciencia do Solo (Impresso) </em> 34:1463

18.
Leao, T.P., Perfect, E., Tyner, J.S. New semi-empirical formulae for predicting soil solution conductivity from dielectric properties at 50MHz. <em>  Journal of Hydrology (Amsterdam) </em> 393:321--330


19.
van den Berg, E.H., Perfect, E., Tu, C., Knappett, P.S.K., Leao, T.P., Donat, R.W. 2009. Unsaturated hydraulic conductivity measurements with centrifuges: a review <em> Vadose Zone Journal</em> 8: 531--547

20.
Kavalieri, K.M.V., Silva, A.P., Tormena, C.A., Leao, T.P., Dexter, A.R. 2009. Long term effects of no-tillage on dynamic soil physical properties in a Rhodic Ferrasol in Parana, Brazil <em> Soil and Tillage Research</em> 130: 158--164

21.
Leao, T.P., Silva, A.P. 2006. A statistical basis for selecting parameters for the evaluation of soil penetration resistance  <em> Scientia Agricola</em> 63(6): 552--557

22.
Leao, T.P., Silva, A.P., Macedo, M.C.M., Imhoff, S., Euclides, V.P.B. 2006. Least limiting water range: an indicator of soil degradation after conversion of Brazilian savanna into pasture  <em> Soil and Tillage Research</em> 88: 279--285

23.
Leao, T.P., Silva, A.P., Perfect, E., Tormena, C.A.. 2005. An algorithm for calculating the least limiting water range of soils  <em> Agronomy Journal</em> 97: 1210--1215

24.
Leao, T.P., Silva, A.P. 2004. A simplified Excel algorithm for estimating the least limiting water range of soils  <em> Scientia Agricola</em> 61: 649--654


<strong> Theses and dissertations: </strong>

Ph.D. Dissertation at the University of Tennessee at Knoxville (2009) <a href="https://trace.tennessee.edu/utk_graddiss/5474/"> here </a> 


 D.Sc. Thesis at the Universisty of Sao Paulo. (Here "thesis" has the same connotation as dissertation) (2005) <a href="https://teses.usp.br/teses/disponiveis/11/11140/tde-20200111-155114/en.php"> here </a> 


 M.Sc. Dissertation at the University of Sao Paulo (2003) <a href="https://www.teses.usp.br/teses/disponiveis/11/11140/tde-25022003-135617/en.php"> here </a>






