---
layout: post
title: Fitting an elephant
date: 2023-04-25 
description: Woes of applied science
tags: math
categories: math
related_posts: false
---

Below is one of the most memorable conversations discussing the role of models in physics, and in applied sciences for that matter. It was narrated by Freeman Dyson here and it is transcribed in part below
[link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hV41QEKiMlM&t=83s). Please contact me if you want it removed. 

Freeman Dyson:

<em>So I arrived ... Chicago and knocked on Fermi’s door, and he was very polite, I came in and he said  - yes - and I showed him the graphs which our theoretical numbers were plotted and Fermi’s experimental numbers were plotted, the agreement was on the whole pretty good.

So Fermi hardly looked at these graphs, just put them on the desk, glanced at them very briefly, and he said:  

-I’m not very impressed with what you've been doing.

He said:

-When one does a theoretical calculation, you know there are two ways of doing it, either you should have a clear physical model in mind or you should have a rigorous mathematical basis, you have neither.

So that was it, in about two sentences he disposed ... the whole subject.

Then I asked him, well what does he think of the numerical agreement, and he said:

-How many parameters did you use for the fit? How many free parameters are there in your method?

So I counted up a turned out there were four, he said:

-Johnny von Neumann used to say “with four parameters I can fit an elephant, with five I can make him wiggle his trunk”, so I don’t find the numerical agreement very impressive either.

So I said … thank you very much for your help and I said goodbye, there was nothing more to be said, so the whole discussion took ten or fifteen minutes. </em>

The characters in this story are John von Neumann, Freeman Dyson and Enrico Fermi. If you don’t know who these are, you should take some time and look up.  
Back in nobody applied scientist world, I am being forced (maybe forced is too strong of a word, but not too far from that) to evaluate seven parameter water retention models and compare them to five parameter models. These equations are a collage of exponential and sigmoid mathematical functions. There is no physical model or rigorous mathematical basis to water retention phenomena in soils, whoever tells you otherwise is lying to you, those nonlinear models are glorified polynomial functions. 

Then why don't I create a physically based, mathematically rigorous model? Well let's not get carried away, I am no Fermi, Dyson or von Neumann, very far from that. 
I would, however, guess the model would be related to the adsorption energies of water molecules in different geometrical configurations, accounting for the topology of the water fraction in contact with solids. I would guess within the domains of statistical mechanics and topology for a simple model, for an idealized (small) volume. Another greater difficulty is to identify and solve differential equations for a three phase media. 
